multichain module docs (#149)
bcnmy/docs: docs/Modules/multichain.mdx

---
sidebar_label: "Multichain Validation"
sidebar_position: 3
description: "Overview of Multichain Validation Module with ECDSA Ownership"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Multichain Validation Module

> This module acts as an extention of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any number of userOps across multiple blockchain networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module acts as an extension of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any number of userOps across multiple blockchain networks.
```

### What is the Multichain Validation Module? 🤔

This module allows **Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs)** to authorize and sign user operations (UserOps) for Biconomy Smart Accounts on Multiple chains with a single ECDSA signature. 

**Benefits**

> - significantly improves UX for deploying and setting up Smart Accounts on several chains 
> - significantly reduces user friction for multichain operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Significantly improves UX for deploying and setting up Smart Accounts on several chains 
- Significantly reduces user friction for multichain operations.
```

:::tip

> You can also use this module as the **default module** just like the ECDSA Validation Module, as it has all its capabilities for sending ops on the particular chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use this module as the **default module** just like the ECDSA Validation Module, as it has all its capabilities for sending userOps on the particular chain.
```

Author: done

:::

#### Key Functions 🔐

- **ECDSA Signature Scheme**: Utilizes the ECDSA secp256r1 curve for secure signing.
- **Flexible Signer Authentication**: Supports various signer solutions like Privy, Fireblocks, Arcana Auth, Capsule, Lit protocol, Turnkey, Web3Auth, Particle, Magic, Portal, etc.
- **EIP-1271 Compliance**: Allowing Smart Accounts to sign Ethereum messages for logging into dApps.
- **Sign once, Execute on multiple chains**

#### Use Cases 🌟

Enables use cases which require several actions to be authorized for several chains with just one signature required from user.

> 1. Multichain intent for example exit all my native tokens for USDC
> 2. Allows a dApp to require just one signature from their user to configure & deploy smart accounts on multiple chains and delegate certain actions with permission via session keys on all those chains
> 3. Cross chain state sync actions e.g transfer ownership of a smart account, change ENS, similar actions on protocol that is deployed on multiple chains
> 4. Onboard a user on x chains by deploying their smart account and some action like register in a raffle 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Multichain intent for example exit all my native tokens for USDC
2. Allows a dApp to require just one signature from their user to configure & deploy smart accounts on multiple chains and delegate certain actions with permission via session keys on all those chains
3. Cross-chain state sync actions e.g transfer ownership of a smart account, change ENS, similar actions on a protocol that are deployed on multiple chains
4. Onboard a user on x chains by deploying their smart account and some action like registering in a raffle 
```

> 1. Multichain intent for example exit all my native tokens for USDC
> 2. Allows a dApp to require just one signature from their user to configure & deploy smart accounts on multiple chains and delegate certain actions with permission via session keys on all those chains
> 3. Cross-chain state sync actions e.g transfer ownership of a smart account, change ENS, similar actions on a protocol that are deployed on multiple chains
> 4. Onboard a user on x chains by deploying their smart account and some action like registering in a raffle 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's a rundown of its capabilities:

- **Streamlined Token Management**: For instance, users can convert all native tokens to USDC across different chains effortlessly.
- **dApp Integration**: dApps can now request just one signature from users to set up smart accounts on multiple chains. This includes delegating permissions via session keys on each chain.
- **Cross-Chain Coordination**: Facilitates synchronization tasks like transferring smart account ownership or updating ENS across various chain-specific protocols.
- **User Onboarding Simplified**: Enables quick user onboarding on several chains, such as deploying smart accounts and engaging in activities like raffle registration, using one operation.
```

Author: umm no :/

### How does it work? 🤔

> 1. Collecting the set of userOps for signing
> 2. Calculate userOpHash
> 3. Every userOpHash is now a leaf of a Merkle Tree.
> 4. Instead of signing individual hashes, the user signs the Merkle Root.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module streamlines operations through a Merkle Tree structure:
- **Gather User Operations**: Compiles various user operations (UserOps) for signature.
- **UserOp Hashing**: Each UserOp is hashed, turning them into individual leaves of a Merkle Tree.
- **Merkle Root Signing**: Instead of signing each hash separately, users sign the Merkle Tree's root, encompassing all operations.
```

Author: seems unncessary

Now this signed Merkle Root serves as on-chain evidence, proving any userOp within the tree is authorized. With this, Users can authorize any number of userOps with just one signature over the Merkle Tree Root.

## Smart Contract Deep Dive 🛠️

> You have the option to transmit a multi-chain signature, enabling the sending of various user operations on distinct chains. This signature is then validated by the module. Alternatively, if a plain ECDSA signature (65 bytes) is sent, the module interprets it as a standard ECDSA validation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Offers the ability to transmit a **multi-chain signature**, facilitating various user operations across distinct chains. The module validates this signature accordingly.

:::note
If you send a normal **ECDSA signature** (65 bytes), the module uses standard ECDSA validation.
:::
```

Author: I think current version it's simple enough. can we just keep it?

#### User Operation Validation (`validateUserOp`) 🛡️

> ```solidity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

Docuaurus doesn't properly handle solidity and lacks ofcode colors. Using Typescript here would improve it

Reviewer: We _could_ add it, since Prism already supports it. https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/code-blocks#supported-languages

https://prismjs.com/#supported-languages

Reviewer 3: @livingrockrises in the docusaurus.config.js you can add the following 
 prism: {
        theme: lightCodeTheme,
        darkTheme: darkCodeTheme,
        **additionalLanguages: ['solidity']**
      },
 and use ```sol ``` it works. also can we shorten this method by moving some params to function line.

---

> sidebar_label: "Multichain Validation Module"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Multichain Validation"
```

> sidebar_label: "Multichain Validation Module"

Author: why??

> sidebar_label: "Multichain Validation Module"

Author: hmm ok

sidebar_position: 3
description: "Overview of Multichain Validation Module with ECDSA Ownership"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Multichain Validation Module

> This module acts as an extention of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any amount of userOps accross multiple blockchain networks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This module acts as an extention of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any number of userOps across multiple blockchain networks.
```

> This module acts as an extention of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any amount of userOps accross multiple blockchain networks.

Reviewer 2: extention -> extension

> This module acts as an extention of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any amount of userOps accross multiple blockchain networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module acts as an extension of the [ECDSA Module](/Modules/ecdsa). The added benefit of this module is you now have the ability to sign once and authorize any amount of userOps across multiple blockchain networks.
```
Please use a grammar checker.

### What is the Multichain Validation Module? 🤔

This module allows **Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs)** to authorize and sign user operations (UserOps) for Biconomy Smart Accounts on Multiple chains with single ECDSA signature. 

> `Benefits`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Benefits**
```

- significantly improves UX for deploying and setting up Smart Accounts on several chains 
- significantly reduces user friction for multichain operations.

:::tip
You can use also this module as the **default module** just like ECDSA Validation Module as it has all it's capabilities for sending ops on particular chain.
:::

#### Key Functions 🔐

- **ECDSA Signature Scheme**: Utilizes the ECDSA secp256r1 curve for secure signing.
- **Flexible Signer Authentication**: Supports various signer solutions like Privy, Fireblocks, Arcana Auth, Capsule, Lit protocol, Turnkey, Web3Auth, Particle, Magic, Portal etc
- **EIP-1271 Compliance**: Allowing Smart Accounts to sign Ethereum messages for logging into dApps.
- **Sign once, Execute on multiple chains**

#### Use Cases 🌟

> Enables use cases which require several actions to be authorized for several chains with just one signature required from user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: This is repetitive and redundant

Author: I think there's no hard keeping it to set context for example use cases

> 1. **Multichain intent for example exit all my native tokens for usdc

Reviewer 3: double stars can be removed.

Author: done

> 1. **Multichain intent for example exit all my native tokens for usdc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Multichain intent for example exit all my native tokens for USDC
```

> 2. **Allows a dApp to require just one signature from their user to configure & deploy smart accounts on multiple chains and delegate certain actions with permission via session keys on all those chains
> 3. **Cross chain state sync actions e.g transfer ownership of SA, change ens, similar actions on protocol that is deployed on multiple chains
> 4. **Onboard user on x chains by deploying their smart account + some action like register in raffle 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Allows a dApp to require just one signature from their user to configure & deploy smart accounts on multiple chains and delegate certain actions with permission via session keys on all those chains
3. **Cross chain state sync actions e.g transfer ownership of a smart account, change ENS, similar actions on protocol that is deployed on multiple chains
4. **Onboard a user on x chains by deploying their smart account and some action like register in a raffle 
```

"similar actions on protocol that is deployed on multiple chains" Can you rephrase this sentence it is unclear to me.

Author: if uniswap is on 3 chains then make a swap USDC to ETH on all chains

Author: added suggestions

### How does it work? 🤔

> 1. We take all the userOps which we need to sign.

Reviewer 3: can we rephrase these steps
It involves collecting the set of userOps for signing, 
each userOp Hash is a leaf in a Merkle Tree.
Instead of signing individual hashes, user signs the Merkle Root.
This signed Merkle Root serves as on-chain evidence, proving any userOp within the tree is authorized.

Reviewer: Agree.

Author: check the changes

Author: ### How does it work? 🤔

1. Collecting the set of userOps for signing
2. Calculate userOpHash
3. Every userOpHash is now a leaf of a Merkle Tree.
4. Instead of signing individual hashes, user signs the Merkle Root.

Now this signed Merkle Root serves as on-chain evidence, proving any userOp within the tree is authorized. User can authorize any amount of userOps with just one signature over the Merkle Root of those userOps

> 2. We get userOpHash from those userOps.
> 3. Every userOpHash is now a leaf of a Merkle Tree.
> 4. Instead of signing several userOpHash separately, user signs one Merkle Root.
> 5. Now we can reliably prove on-chain that a userOp is a leaf of a tree whose root has been signed by an authorized user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. We get userOpHash from those userOps.
3. Every userOpHash is now a leaf of a Merkle Tree.
4. Instead of signing several userOpHashes separately, the user signs one Merkle Root.
5. Now we can reliably prove on-chain that a userOp is a leaf of a tree whose root has been signed by an authorized user.
```

Author: done

> Now user can authorize any amount of userOps with just one signature over the Merkle Root of those userOps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this, Users can authorize any number of userOps with signing merkle root of those userOps Hashes.
```

Author: done

> Now user can authorize any amount of userOps with just one signature over the Merkle Root of those userOps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the user can authorize any amount of userOps (Merkle Tree leafs) with just one signature over the Merkle Tree Root.
```

## Smart Contract Deep Dive 🛠️

> You can send a multi-chain signature to send different userops on different chains and be validated by this module. if plain ecdsa signature(65 bytes) is sent then the module assumes it’s form as standard ECDSA validation module

Reviewer 3: can we make it more clearer?

Author: it's explained in smart contract section below. what do you propose?

Author: doing this

"You have the option to transmit a multi-chain signature, enabling the sending of various user operations on distinct chains. This signature is then validated by the module. Alternatively, if a plain ECDSA signature (65 bytes) is sent, the module interprets it as a standard ECDSA validation."

> You can send a multi-chain signature to send different userops on different chains and be validated by this module. if plain ecdsa signature(65 bytes) is sent then the module assumes it’s form as standard ECDSA validation module

Reviewer: - userops -> userOps
- "ECDSA signature(65 bytes)"-> ECDSA signature (65 bytes)

> You can send a multi-chain signature to send different userops on different chains and be validated by this module. if plain ecdsa signature(65 bytes) is sent then the module assumes it’s form as standard ECDSA validation module

Author: updated

#### User Operation Validation (`validateUserOp`) 🛡️

```solidity

function validateUserOp(
        UserOperation calldata userOp,
        bytes32 userOpHash
    ) external view virtual override returns (uint256) {

       // userOp.signature contains both the signature and the validation module's address

        (bytes memory moduleSignature, ) = abi.decode(
            userOp.signature,
            (bytes, address)
        );

> 

Reviewer 3: can we remove extra new lines and spaces from the code

Reviewer: [Solidity Style Guide](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/style-guide.html#blank-lines)

Author: I have copied this from code in scw repo which uses solidity linter

            bytes32 merkleTreeRoot,
            bytes32[] memory merkleProof,
            bytes memory multichainSignature
        ) = abi.decode(
                moduleSignature,
                (uint48, uint48, bytes32, bytes32[], bytes)
            );

        // make a leaf out of userOpHash, validUntil and validAfter
        bytes32 leaf = keccak256(
            abi.encodePacked(validUntil, validAfter, userOpHash)
        );

        if (!MerkleProof.verify(merkleProof, merkleTreeRoot, leaf)) {
            revert("Invalid UserOp");
        }

        return
            _verifySignature(
                merkleTreeRoot,
                multichainSignature,
                address(uint160(sender))
            )
                ? _packValidationData(
                    false, //sigVerificationFailed = false
                    validUntil == 0 ? type(uint48).max : validUntil,
                    validAfter
                )
                : SIG_VALIDATION_FAILED;
    }

```

All the other methods are inherited from [ECDSAOwnershipRegistryModule](https://github.com/bcnmy/scw-contracts/blob/main/contracts/smart-account/modules/EcdsaOwnershipRegistryModule.sol)

#### References

> 1.**[Source code](https://github.com/bcnmy/scw-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/smart-account/modules/MultichainECDSAValidator.sol)**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **[Source code](https://github.com/bcnmy/scw-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/smart-account/modules/MultichainECDSAValidator.sol)**
```

Author: done

2.**[Merkle Trees](https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/blockchain-tutorial/merkle-tree-in-blockchain)**

## How to Guide - Biconomy SDK 📘 

Integrate the Multichain Validation Module into Biconomy Smart Accounts using the SDK.

> 

Author: ok

> ### Setup and Installation 🛠️

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Setup and Installation
```

Author: done

  };

  // Build partial userOp for chain1
  let partialUserOp1 = await baseAccount.buildUserOp([transaction], { 
    // Assuming Sponsorship Paymaster is to be used otherwise leave as it's optional
    paymasterServiceData: {
    mode: PaymasterMode.SPONSORED,
  }});

  // Build partial userOp for chain2
  let partialUserOp2 = await polygonAccount.buildUserOp([transaction], { 
    // Assuming Sponsorship Paymaster is to be used otherwise leave as it's optional
    paymasterServiceData: {
    mode: PaymasterMode.SPONSORED,
  }});

  // Use multichain module to sign once for all ops
  const returnedOps = await multiChainModule.signUserOps([{userOp: partialUserOp1, chainId: ChainId.BASE_GOERLI_TESTNET}, {userOp: partialUserOp2, chainId: ChainId.POLYGON_MUMBAI}]);

  const userOpResponse1 = await baseAccount.sendSignedUserOp(returnedOps[0] as any);
  // You can also just wait for transaction hash by waitForTxHash()
  const transactionDetails1 = await userOpResponse1.wait();

  const userOpResponse2 = await polygonAccount.sendSignedUserOp(returnedOps[1] as any);
  const transactionDetails2 = await userOpResponse2.wait();
```

:::info

> If the Smart Account has not been deployed yet then it makes sense to pass multiChainModule as defaultValidationModule. This ensures its default activation and has all the capabilities of the ECDSA Module (popular go-to module). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the Smart Account isn't yet deployed, setting **multiChainModule** as the default validation module is beneficial. This activates it by default and retains all functions of the **ECDSA Module**, a popular go-to module.
```

:::

## Conclusion
It makes it easier for dApps to deploy and set up Smart Accounts across multiple chains or issue session keys with different permissions for each chain, reducing user difficulties.

> "Multichain module allows us to use session keys and setup sessions on multiple chains with single wallet signature." - [Rage Trade](https://www.rage.trade/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Multichain module allows us to use session keys and setup sessions on multiple chains with single wallet signature.
>
> — [Rage Trade](https://www.rage.trade/)
```

```bash

pnpm add @biconomy/modules ethers

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### Creating a Signer 🗝️

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Creating a Signer
```

Author: done

```javascript
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const provider = new ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider("[RPC_Endpoint]");
const signer = new ethers.Wallet("[Private_Key]", provider);
```

> ### Integration - Importing and Initializing Multichain Validation Module 🌟

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Importing and Initializing Multichain Validation Module
```

Author: done

```typescript
import {
  MultiChainValidationModule,
  DEFAULT_MULTICHAIN_MODULE,
} from "@biconomy/modules";

// Notice this is chain agnostic so same instance can be used on instances of Smart account API on different chains
const multiChainModule = await MultiChainValidationModule.create({
  signer: signer,
  moduleAddress: DEFAULT_MULTICHAIN_MODULE,
});
```

Once initialized it can be passed to the smart account [create method](/Account/methods/create) to create instances of the smart account.
Check [Paymaster integration](/Paymaster/integration) and [Bundler integration](/Bundler/integration) sections to create instances of them.

Here is how you can set up Smart Account instances accross multiple chains:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```ts

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

import { BiconomySmartAccountV2 } from "@biconomy/account";

let baseAccount = await BiconomySmartAccountV2.create({
    chainId: ChainId.BASE_GOERLI_TESTNET,
    paymaster: //basePaymaster,
    bundler: //baseBundler,
    rpcUrl: // Base Goerli Rpc
    entryPointAddress: DEFAULT_ENTRYPOINT_ADDRESS,
    defaultValidationModule: multiChainModule, // this can also be ecdsaModule instance (MUST if SA is already created with ecdsa as default module)
    activeValidationModule: multiChainModule
  });

let polygonAccount = await BiconomySmartAccountV2.create({
    chainId: ChainId.POLYGON_MUMBAI,
    paymaster: //polygonPaymaster,
    bundler: //polygonBundler,
    rpcUrl: // Polygon Mumbai Rpc
    entryPointAddress: DEFAULT_ENTRYPOINT_ADDRESS,
    defaultValidationModule: multiChainModule, // this can also be ecdsaModule instance
    activeValidationModule: multiChainModule
  });

```

> ### Integration - Signing and Sending Multichain userops🌟

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Signing and Sending Multichain userOps
```

Author: done

  };

  // Build partial userOp for chain1
  let partialUserOp1 = await baseAccount.buildUserOp([transaction], { 
    // Assuming Sponsorship Paymaster is to be used otherwise leave as it's optional
    paymasterServiceData: {
    mode: PaymasterMode.SPONSORED,
  }});

  // Build partial userOp for chain2
  let partialUserOp2 = await polygonAccount.buildUserOp([transaction], { 
    // Assuming Sponsorship Paymaster is to be used otherwise leave as it's optional
    paymasterServiceData: {
    mode: PaymasterMode.SPONSORED,
  }});

  // Use multichain module to sign once for all ops
  const returnedOps = await multiChainModule.signUserOps([{userOp: partialUserOp1, chainId: ChainId.BASE_GOERLI_TESTNET}, {userOp: partialUserOp2, chainId: ChainId.POLYGON_MUMBAI}]);

  const userOpResponse1 = await baseAccount.sendSignedUserOp(returnedOps[0] as any);
  // You can also just wait for transaction hash by waitForTxHash()
  const transactionDetails1 = await userOpResponse1.wait();

  const userOpResponse2 = await polygonAccount.sendSignedUserOp(returnedOps[1] as any);
  const transactionDetails2 = await userOpResponse2.wait();
```

:::info

> If Smart Account is not deployed yet then it makes sense to pass multiChainModule as defaultValidationModule. That was it would get enabled by default and has all Ecdsa Module (popular go-to module) capabilities. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If Smart Account has not been deployed yet then it makes sense to pass multiChainModule as defaultValidationModule. This ensures its default activation and has all the capabilities of the ECDSA Module (popular go-to module). 
```

Reviewer: If "the" Smart Account.

Author: done

:::

> ### Conclusion

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

Author: ok

> It reduces user friction for dApps which for example want to quickly and seamlessly deploy and configure Smart Accounts on several chains or issue session keys with the permissions that vary from chain to chain.

Reviewer 3: can we simplify this?

Author: It makes it easier for dApps to deploy and set up Smart Accounts across multiple chains or issue session keys with different permissions for each chain, reducing user difficulties.

Author: done

> "Mutlichain module allows us to use sessions keys and setup sessions on multiple chains with single wallet signature." - [Rage Trade](https://www.rage.trade/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Multichain module allows us to use session keys and setup sessions on multiple chains with single wallet signature." - [Rage Trade](https://www.rage.trade/)
```

Author: done

> "Mutlichain module allows us to use sessions keys and setup sessions on multiple chains with single wallet signature." - [Rage Trade](https://www.rage.trade/)

Author: nice catch
